== Introduction ==

Scuba has the ability to mark locations as ''markers'' with the Marker
Tool. This is also the tool used to set the cursor, a special marker
that views can lock onto. In the future, there will be greater
functionality based around markers, but right now they are mainly
designed to be used for importing and exporting control point files.

Control points are saved in 'real' RAS space. contrary to tkmedit,
which will save control points in 'surface' RAS space if the 'real'
RAS transformation is not available.

== Importing ==

Use the File->Import Markers from Control Points... command to read a
control.dat file. If you have specified a subject in scuba, i.e. with
the -s command line argument, you should see the standard control.dat
file automatically filled in in the dialog box.

Once you import this file, you should see the control points drawn as
markers in green.

== Creating and Deleting ==

To create and delete markers, click on the Tools tab and then select
the Marker tool from the pull-down menu or from the toolbar. Note that
there is a field for selecting a maximum number of markers. If this
number is n and you create n markers, the n+1'th marker you create
will take over the marker in position 1. This is designed for creating
small numbers of markers that overwrite each other. For control
points, just set this number high so you won't clobber your control
points.

To create a marker, select the Marker tool and click with the button 2
in a view. To remove one, click with button 3 on or near an existing
marker.

== Exporting ==

Use the File->Export Markers to Control Points... command to save a
control.dat file. Again, if you have specified a subject, the file
entry will be filled in with the standard control.dat location.
